Track 2, Voil Vadyan Trigpoint. There can be all sorts of colours. Two audio stops,
two very impressive views, don't you think? You are now standing 564 metres above sea
level, 1850 feet in old money. Until your right, north, you can see across the Davi
Valley to Cadrydris and other Snowdonia peaks as before from the memorial, and now the view
is almost 360 degrees. And ahead, slightly to your left, at the south west, you can now
see the long humped whale back of Pymlemann, meaning five peaks in Welsh, and the rail
focal point in the north Cambrian's landscape. Below can be seen Glyndwr's Way, which snakes
its way towards the almost lifeless Glaslyne Lake that we will learn about at stop four.
Throughout the year, the patchwork of hues you can see from this vantage point is always changing,
as Emir Lewis, a local farmer for over 30 years, recalls. Well, I think it's just the different
colours that you have looking from there. You're looking down at the Davi Valley, and the colours,
all the greenery and the different pieces that have been ploughed and reseeded over the years,
it's a different green to where the old pastures are. And then you look across to the hills,
and they can be all sorts of colours, depending on the weather conditions.
The Davi Valley is not just a pretty place to look at. It is one of only a handful of biosphere
reserves in the UK, an international conservation designation created to promote and demonstrate a
balanced relationship between humans and the biosphere. From the Cessail Oak woodlands in the
valley tops to the estuary below, the area is rich in wildlife. And as Clive Faulkner,
Conservation Manager for the Montgomeryshire Wildlife Trust, explains,
for a major estuary it is curiously underdeveloped. Unusually, there aren't actually buildings. There
isn't a marina, there isn't a factory, there isn't a town. Most, if you look at most of the valleys,
most of the estuaries in the UK, they end in a town, they end in an oil refinery, they end in
a marina. And it's not the case there. So actually, if you look at the whole valley as a unit,
it's a beautiful, unique place. And it's basically unspoiled. And yet there are people there who are
living with the landscape. And that's a really special thing. Retrace your steps back to the new
style. But do not cross it. Instead turn right and head downhill. When the slope eases, bear right
towards the left hand side of Glaslin Lake, rather than following the fence line. And your route down
and across open moorland to join Glyndua's Way will become clear. Upon reaching the National Trail,
turn left and listen to track three, when this path crosses the track for vehicles.